# Book Store Cloud

#### _About App_
---

Book Store Cloud is a web application built with Laravel PHP. A dynamic platform catering to two distinct user types: Authors and Collaborators. Authors are empowered to manage and showcase their literary works, while Collaborators can explore an extensive collection of books across genres. Both user types must register to unlock the platform's full potential, ensuring a secure and welcoming environment. We're dedicated to fostering a vibrant literary community, connecting authors with their readers, and celebrating the power of storytelling. Join us on this literary journey where words come to life, and stories find their readers.

## Features
---

- **User Registration and Profiles:** Create personalized profiles, providing information about themselves, their literary works, and reading preferences.
- **Book Management for Authors:** Can easily add, edit, and manage their books.
- **Search and Browse:** can search for books by genre, author, title, or keywords.
- **Author-Reader Interaction:** Authors can engage with their readers through comments, messages.
- **Mobile Accessibility:** Can access anywhere and anytime.

## Installation
---

### Prerequisites

- PHP (>= 8.1)
- Laravel(>= 7.x)
- Composer (>= 2.6)
- npm (>= 9.0)
- Laravel Sanctum (>= 3.0)
- darkaonline/l5-swagger (>= 8.0)
- swagger-ui (>= 5.0)

### Clone the repository

```sh
git clone https://github.com/hdr105/cloud-book-writer
```

Navigate to the project directory

```sh
cd cloud-book-writer
```

#### - Composer

Install dependencies:

```sh
composer install
```

#### - NPM

```sh
npm install 
npm run dev
```

#### - Laravel Sanctum

Its time to install laravel sanctum:
You may install Laravel Sanctum via the Composer package manager:

```sh
composer require laravel/sanctum
```

Next, you should publish the Sanctum configuration

```sh
php artisan vendor:publish --provider="Laravel\Sanctum\SanctumServiceProvider"
```

Finally, you should run your database migrations.

```sh
php artisan migrate
```

You can get detail [laravel sanctum](https://laravel.com/docs/10.x/sanctum) documentation here.

#### - L5 Swagger

Lets install darkonline/l5swagger:

```sh
composer require "darkaonline/l5-swagger"
```

Open your `AppServiceProvider` (located in `app/Providers`) and add this line in `register` function

```sh
$this->app->register(\L5Swagger\L5SwaggerServiceProvider::class);
```

or open your `config/app.php` and add this line in `providers` section

```sh
L5Swagger\L5SwaggerServiceProvider::class,
```

You can publish L5-Swagger's config:

```sh
$ php artisan vendor:publish --provider "L5Swagger\L5SwaggerServiceProvider"
```

Files can be viewed into your project by running:

```sh
$ php artisan l5-swagger:generate
```

You can get detail [darkaonline/l5-swagger](https://github.com/DarkaOnLine/L5-Swagger/wiki) documentation here.

#### - DB Seeding

To generate a seeder, execute the `make:seeder` Artisan command. All seeders generated by the framework will be placed in the `database/seeders` directory:

```sh
$ php artisan make:seeder UserSeeder
```

### Environment Configuration
---

Configure environment variables:

In `.env` file, Update the file with your own database credentials and other necessary configurations. Generate application key:

```sh
php artisan key:generate
```

Run migrations:

```sh
php artisan migrate
```

Start the local development server:

```sh
php artisan serve
```

Usage Create a new project and add tasks to it. Drag and drop tasks to change their priority. Edit or delete tasks as needed. Deployment Follow these steps to deploy the application on a server:

Create a new database on your server and update the '`.env` file with the database credentials. Copy the project files to your server. Set proper file permissions to the required directories.

Configure any necessary server-specific settings (e.g., environment variables, virtual hosts). Access the application through your server's domain or IP address.

Contributions are welcome! Feel free to fork the repository and submit pull requests.

### License 
---

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for more information.
